.\" oculusd man page. 
.\" Contact bart@friesoft.nl to report errors or omissions. 
.TH oculusd 1 "14 December 2004" "0.7" "oculusd man page"
.SH NAME
oculusd \- a simple server monitor
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B oculusd [options]
.SH EXAMPLES
oculusd -d 
.br
oculusd -v -c /etc/oculus/oculusd.conf
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B oculusd
is a simple server monitor, that uses a plain text, human readable, protocol to query the server. It uses an XML style configuration file and supports plugins for extra functionality. This man page may not describe all commands allowed or supported.
.SH OPTIONS
.IP -v
Be verbose. When this is enabled, the daemon will give all kinds of status information to stdout. 
.P
.IP "-c file"
Use 
.I file 
as the configuration file, instead of the default
.I "/etc/oculusd.conf"
(see 
.B oculusd.conf
(5) for more information).
.IP -h
Show help screen.
.IP -q
Quiet mode. Only show info in the log.
.IP -d
Run in daemon mode.
.IP "-p port"
Listen on 
.I port
for connections. This will override the port set in the configuration file.
.SH BUILT IN COMMANDS
.IP HELP
Show supported and allowed commands. When HELP is followed by a supported command, it will show its help text.
.IP QUIT
Exits the client.
.IP KILL
Kills off the server and closes the connection. All other connections stay alive until QUIT is issued in there.
.IP SHPL
Show loaded plugins and the commands they export.
.IP "UNLD name"
Unload plugin 
.I name
if loaded. When 
.I name
is ALL, all plugins will de unloaded.
.IP RELD
Unload all plugins and reload plugins in the plugin directory.
.IP CONN
Show all connected clients.
.SH FILES
.IP /etc/oculusd.conf
Configuration file. See oculusd.conf(5) for a description.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR oculusd.conf(5)
.SH BUGS
When Windows telnet is used to connect to the daemon, it will not work properly. This is due to that fact that Windows telnet will send characters immediately after they are typed in, instead of waiting for the [enter] key. GNU telnet works fine with oculusd.
.SH AUTHOR
.nf
Bart Friederichs (bart@friesoft.nl)
.fi
