.\" oculusd.conf man page. 
.\" Contact bart@friesoft.nl to report errors or omissions. 
.TH oculusd.conf 5 "07 November 2004" "1.0" "oculusd.conf man page"
.SH NAME
oculusd.conf \- oculusd config file (XML format)
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B oculusd.conf 
is the oculusd configuration file. It uses XML style syntax and adheres to the oculusd.dtd, which is usually located in /usr/local/share/oculusd.dtd. A sample config file can also be found there. The file has the following structure:
.br

.br
<?xml version="1.0"?>
.br
<!DOCTYPE oculusd 
.br
   SYSTEM "/usr/local/share/oculusd/oculusd.dtd">
.br
<oculusd version="0.6">
.br
[ elements ]
.br
</oculusd>
.br

.SH ALLOWED ELEMENTS
.IP oculusd
The root element. All other elements are placed in here. This element has one attribute 
.I version
which holds the oculusd dtd version. This element can have only two elements:
.I server
and 
.I onmp
.IP server
Describes the behaviour of the server, and can have the following elements:
.I host,
.I port,
.I hosts-allow,
.I logfile,
.I plugindir,
and multiple
.I plugin
elements. The 
.I plugin 
is optional for every plugin, to create some flexibility in plugin programming. See below for explanation of all the elements.
.IP onmp
Describes the behaviour of allowed commands. Can have the following elements:
.I allowed-commands
.IP host
The IP adress on which the deamon should listen.
.IP port
The port on which to listen.
.IP hosts-allow
A list of hosts that can connect. This can have multiple 
.I host
elements. See above for the
.I host
element.
.IP logfile
The file where to log to.
.IP plugindir
The directory where oculus plugins can be found.
.IP plugin
This element is optional, for referring plugins to their own configuration files. It holds two elements:
.I name
and 
.I config
.IP name
The basename of the plugin, which is the filename, without the .so extension.
.IP config
The configuration file of the plugin.
.IP allowed-commands
A list of 
.I command 
elements that define the commands that are allowed.
.IP command
A command.
.SH EXAMPLES
.B "server section"
.br
<server>
.br
  <server>
.br
    <host>127.0.0.1</host>
.br
    <port>1976</port>
.br
    <hosts-allow>
.br
		<host>127.0.0.1</host>
.br
    </hosts-allow>
.br
    <logfile>/var/log/oculusd.log</logfile>
.br
    <plugindir>/usr/local/share/oculusd/plugins
	</plugindir>
.br
	<plugin>
.br
		<name>libocp_process</name>
.br
		<config>/etc/oculusd/plugins/process.conf
		</config>
.br
	</plugin>
.br
  </server>
.br

.br
.B onmp section
.br
  <onmp>
.br
    <allowed-commands>
.br
      <command>UPTI</command>
.br
	  <command>UNAM</command>
.br
      <command>HELP</command>
.br
      <command>QUIT</command>
.br
      <command>KILL</command>
.br
      <command>PROC</command>
.br
    </allowed-commands>
.br
  </onmp>
.br
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR oculusd (1)
.SH BUGS
The version attribute in the config file is not checked against.
.SH AUTHOR
.nf
Bart Friederichs (bart@friesoft.nl)
.fi
